# Javascript-Training

JavaScript is a language that can be challenging at first due to varios concepts & keywords that conflicts when we come an OOP programming. Foundations are challenged and put to test when diving deep with JavaScript.

The idea behind this repo is to start a basic set of ideas and examples so it can be one tool more into understanding this language better. - don't get me wrong, I'm still sailing this journey-

## Composition over inheritance

Something I cannot get enough talking about is the way I can easily compose in JavaScript instead of having a full set of blueprints sitting all over my code and throwing exceptions when something is not implemented since it doesn't make sense but is needed due to inheritance.

### Wait, what?

So something that actually get complicated on large applications is when our classes are not flexible enough to respond to our needs, for example take the next pseudocode example:

```C#
interface IMover { // Basically someone that can move
  void Run();
  void Walk();
}

// I know an average guy that can run and walk
class NormalAvgGuy implements IMover {
  speed = 0;

  override void Run() {
    speed = 5;
  }

  override void Walk() {
    speed = 2;
  }
}

// Plus I know Usain Bolt that can run and walk twice as fast
class UsainDude implements IMover {
  speed = 0;

  override void Run() {
    speed = 10;
  }

  override void Walk() {
    speed = 4;
  }
}

// But then I meet a senior dude that is over 90 years that can
// certainly walk but can't run
class SeniorOver90Years implements IMover {
  speed = 0;

  override void Run() {
    throw NotImplementedException();
  }

  override void Walk() {
    speed = 4;
  }
}
```

Now... we can split maybe the interface into `Walker` and `Runner` and make implement `Walker` only to `SeniorOver90Years` and not `Runner`. Since we went with interfaces this is quite a simple fix, but if this was extrictly inheritance we would've need to go one level up so we extends the appropiate super class.

Problems like this can be solved with prefering composition over inheritance and I believe JavaScript is one of the programming languages where you can take advantage and prioritize composition.

Let's take a look at `Scope`, `Closure` and try to solve the example above using JavaScript with `Currying` and `Chaining`

## Scope

Scope is a set of rules that help us find `where I can resolve what we are looking for`, being variables, functions, objects, etc. This happens at compile time.

Scope will be created while JavaScript code is being processed, lets say:

```JavaScript
var aGlobal = 'whoops';

function yay() {
  var innerYay = 'shh..';
}
```

So code above would create two scopes, one sitting inside the `window`/`global` scope and another `yay` function scope, meaning `inneryay` exists withing `yay` scope.

Pretty easy right?, well... how about:

```JavaScript
var checkThis = '1';

function andHere() {
  var checkThis = '2';
}
```

I add some logs:

```JavaScript
var checkThis = '1';

function andHere() {
  console.log(checkThis); // One
  var checkThis = '2';
  console.log(checkThis); // Two
}
```

*What would you think it would print?*

If you thought `One` prints `'1'` then you are between us mere mortals, but `One` would print `undefined` and `Two` would print `'2'`, due to hoisting.


## Closure

Closure is when a function can access it own definition scope besides being executed in a different lexical scope. Or as Kyle Simpson puts it, `Is when a function remembers is own lexical scope while being executed outside that scope`

```
function Maker() {
  var counter = 1; // Closed variable

  return function() {
    console.log(counter);
  };
}

function log() {
  Maker()(); // Prints '1' besides  being in the log scope
}

log();
```

## Currying

## Chaining
