# JavaScript This Binding

## this Keyword

The this keyword is the reference to which a function can reference its execution context. Writting a this-aware function will reference the execution context despite where it was writed, the only thing that will define the `this` keyword is how it was executed

## Binding Rules

### Default Binding

A default binding applies when you cannot find another valid rule.

Without strict mode:

 ```JavaScript
function withThis() {
  console.log(this.variable);

  this.pro = this.
}

withThis();
 ```

 Default binding will apply and since we are **NOT** in strict mode, then this will fallback to `window`/`global` and print `undefined` since `window.variable` is undefined.

  ```JavaScript
'use strict'
function withThis() {
  console.log(this.variable);
}

withThis();
 ```

 Default binding will apply and since we **are** in strict mode, then `this` will try to fallback to `window`/`global` but will set it to `undefined` because of strict mode and throw an error.

 ### Implicit binding rule

 The implicit binding rule would determine a call site and apply it to the `this` context.

  ```JavaScript
function withThis() {
  console.log(this.variable);
}

var display1 = { variable: 1, withThis: withThis }
var display2 = { variable: 2, withThis: withThis }

display1.withThis();
display2.withThis();
 ```

 Therefore, `display1.withThis()` will print `1` and `display2.withThis()` will print '2'.

 ### Explicit binding rule

 The explicit binding rule lets us specify the execution context without caring the call site. We have two approaches for explicitly bind the `this` context, using `call()` or `apply()`

 `call()` - lets us set the context and pass additional parameters via comma
 `apply()` - lets us set the context and pass additional parameters via array

 Therefore we can do the following:

 ```JavaScript
 function printName(salute) {
   console.log(salute + ', my name is ' + this.name);
 }

 var person1 = { name: 'John' };
 var person2 = { name: 'Amy' };

 printName.apply(person1, ['Hello']); // Hello, my name is John
 printName.call(person2, 'Hi'); // Hi, my name is Amy
 ```

 #### Hard Binding (bind)

 We can also bind a function so the `this` context is predictable, binding will have more precedence that regular explicit or implicit bindings.

  ```JavaScript
 function printName(salute) {
   console.log(salute + ', my name is ' + this.name);
 }

 var person1 = { name: 'John' };
 var person2 = { name: 'Amy' };

 printName.apply(person1, ['Hello']); // Hello, my name is John
 printName.call(person2, 'Hi'); // Hi, my name is Amy

 var binded = printName.bind(person2);

 binded.call(person1, 'Hi'); // Hi, my name is Amy

 binded('Hello'); // Hello, my name is Amy
 ```

 ### New Keyword

 The `new` keyword in JavaScript creates a new Object based on a contructor `function`, executing a `new function()` will return a brand new object after 4 steps.

 #### 4 Steps of the new keyword

 We have `var employee = new Employee('Jhon');`

1. Create a brand new object (a.k.a `temp`)
2. Link brand new object (`temp`) to other `Object` and set contructor to the new function (a.k.a `Employee`)
3. Set brand new object as execution context and execute new function with paramaters (invoke Employee with `temp` with `parameters`)
4. Return execution context `this`. If no return this explicity, return brand new this (`temp`)

### Arrow functions

Arrow functions are a special case of function were we don't have a reference to the execution context but `this` keyword is actually treated as a variable and therefore it is attached to a lexical scope mechanism.

Using Babel we can check that an arrow function is transpiled as:

```JavaScript
(function() {
  
  var anArrow = () => {
    this.name = '';
  }

})();
```

To 

```JavaScript
(function() {
  var _this = this;
  
  var anArrow = () => {
    _this.name = '';
  }

})();
```

Therefore not having dynamic scope but lexical scope, so keep an eye when using arrow function to avoid having issues when mixin dynamic and lexical scope
